# Contributing

## Tooling and workflow

Apart from a `git` and a `Python` distribution (where `Python` version > 3.8) the unique build tool required is `hatch`, but note that for a simple build, because `hatch`/`hatchling` are PEP 517 compatible, you basically do not need to install anything. As for any other python package it could be recommended to set up a virtual environment before installation to keep your system `PYTHON PATH` clean. In development mode, since hatch has builtin [environment management](https://hatch.pypa.io/latest/environment) the need of a virtual env could be avoided. For example, instead of setting up a whole virtual enviroment and using `pip install -e .` to work on your editable package, you could simply enter in the default hatch environment with 
`hatch shell` and run 3DFin from its source three by running `python -m three_d_fin` from the `src` folder

## Code structure

This section describes the file hierarchy in the repository. This structure may change in a near future, upon QGIS plugin inclusion.

Source code is available under the `src` folder. End user documentation is stored under `src/documentation`. 

QT creator project is stored under `qt-files/src` along with corresponding `ui` and `rc` files. `qt-files/assets` files are intended for inclusion inside QT resources files.  Note that QT generated files are not versionned. They  are generated on the fly at build time by a [hatch custom build hook](https://hatch.pypa.io/latest/plugins/build-hook/custom/) (they are part of the source package under the `src/gui` folder). For convenience, the QT generated files could also be generated by mean of some [hatch scripts](https://hatch.pypa.io/latest/config/environment/overview/#scripts). See the `pyproject.toml` for the complete list of commands but a simple "in three" development workflow could look like the following.

```console
hatch-run qt-all
hatch shell
cd src
python -m three_d_fin
```

Source code related to the CloudCompare Plugin can be found inside `src/cloudcompare`.

## Code style

Code formatting and style are implicitly described in the `pyproject.toml` file on dedicated `Black` and `ruff` sections. CI is configured to check these rules on each PR. You can also check them locally by using `hatch run check-all` and try to enforce them automatically by using `hatch run fix-all`.

## Building the standalone executable

Standalone distribution can be build via a [hatch custom builder](https://hatch.pypa.io/latest/plugins/builder/custom/) invoking
`hatch build -t custom` will produce a `3DFin.exe` file under the `dist/` directory. 

